[MTA 8.0] [WIP] MTA 8.0.0 Release Notes (#176)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/ref_removed-features-8-0.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-08-07
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="removed-features-8-0_{context}"]
= Removed features

[role="_abstract"]
This section provides a list of all features removed in {ProductFullName} {ProductVersion}. All removed features were deprecated in earlier releases and are no longer supported. 

.XML rules are no longer supported

In {ProductFullName} {ProductVersion}, support for XML rules has been removed. Bug fixes and support are provided only through the end of the {ProductShortName} version 7.0 lifecycle. 

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-5357[MTA-5357])

////
NOT YET CONFIRMED

* IntelliJ deprecation in MTA 7 and removal in MAT 8

> * Eclipse deprecation: Is it just deprecated or removed in MTA 8??? Eclipse plug-in End of support declared in MTA 8.0.

Author: The plug-in is removed, working on the doc text

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-08-07
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="removed-features-8-0_{context}"]
= Removed features

[role="_abstract"]
This section provides a list of all features removed in {ProductFullName} {ProductVersion}. All removed features were deprecated in earlier releases and are no longer supported. 

> .XML rules are removed

Author: SME-reviewed.

> In {ProductFullName} {ProductVersion}, XML rules are removed and are no longer supported. Bug fixes and support are provided only through the end of the {ProductShortName} version 7.0 lifecycle. 

Author: ```suggestion
In {ProductFullName} {ProductVersion}, XML rules are removed and are no longer supported both in the {ProductShortName} user interface (UI) and command-line interface (CLI).
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-5357[MTA-5357])

.The Eclipse IDE plug-in is removed

> The Eclipse IDE plug-in for {ProductFullName}, which you could use to analyze the effort for migrating and modernizing your applications, is removed and is no longer supported. As an alternative, you can use the {ProductName} extension for Visual Studio Code (VS Code).

Author: @istein1, could you please provide your review for this removed feature release note? Or do you know whom should I contact for the review? I also didn't manage to find the engineering ticket for it? Is there any, please? If not, we need to create the doc one.
TY!

Also, one Q: Do you maybe know if the IntelliJ plug-in will also be removed in MTA 8?
